---
layout: post
title: A new adventure!
---


After all the chaos of visas and study permits, finally all the the MDS cohort managed to reach the orientation on 4th of September.

Little bit about me:
I am Akansha Vashisth. I represent the 11% of the pie chart (mentioned on MDS website) with students from India and the 4% pie of computer science students. In other words, I studied computer science engineering in India and after working for 2 years in Hexaware Technologies, now I have joined the UBC Masters of Data Science program. It is my first time experiencing an international setup. UBC has 60000 students from all over the world. I walk on campus and see people from all around the globe.

My aim to start this blog is to document my journey. To start with the program, we are a cohort of 70 students. All of us were given a detailed campus tour on the orientation day and that was the day when we all got meet all the profile pictures in person with whom we had been chatting online for months. According to Maymay’s calculation, the age of the cohort ranges from 19 to 45. Yes! Everybody wants to know who is the 19 year old genius among us. But he/she likes to walk in disguises. After completing our first week of courses, we were invited to a welcome dinner which started at 5:30 pm. I was amazed to read the time, who eats dinner at 5:30 pm? In India, we call it tea time but definitely not dinner time. After running in my new heels and a little black dress, I managed to enter the St. John’s College (where the dinner was hosted) from the back door drawing minimum attention. 

After all the dinners, orientations and the campus tours, came first week’s innocent assignments. Now, I call them innocent because I have completed the first block.  It is the second day of the second block and we are struggling with time complexity of algorithms. So the first assignments look really innocent now. The whole block is divided in four weeks and four courses. Each course has 8 lectures, 4 labs, 2 quizzes and some portfolio activities. 

Our schedule for the block generally goes like this:

Mon : 2 lectures, 1 lab
Tue  : 2 lectures, 1 lab
Wed : 2 lectures, 1 lab
Thur : 2 lectures, 1 lab

Labs deadline : Saturday @ 6 pm
Quizzes after 2 weeks

I don’t know about you, but this is a really tight schedule. I love to swim and travel but it has been over a month since I moved in my residency and I have not entered the swimming pool yet nor have I been to Stanley park(which by the way is Vancouver’s best attraction). 